# 2015 version
...

GKA analysis on data acquired with Acquire Type set to "Reduced data" or "Minimal data" is more sensitive to minor disturbances than analysis where Acquire Type has been set to "Full data". This may for negative controls (scan areas containing only medium) in some situations result in negative growth curves. This can safely be ignored. In any case, the image data may be used to verify that there has been no growth.

## 6.1.1 Background Corrected Absorption

The Background Corrected Absorption (BCA) algorithm is designed to detect microbial growth with high sensitivity even at very low or high cell concentrations.

Based on the first image, the BCA algorithm corrects background intensities to obtain images with an even light distribution before calculating a threshold pixel value which divide pixels into 'background pixels' and 'object pixels'. The BCA algorithm generates growth curves based on changes in 'object pixels'. In this way, BCA is able to determine microbial growth with high sensitivity as the effect of background intensities are reduced significantly compared to the TA algorithm.

### Limitation:

BCA may lead to inaccurate determination of growth curves when for example condensation obscures light transmission resulting in darker images and consequently in false 'object pixels'.

The BCA algorithm has two steps:

- Correction of illumination profile
- Calculation of absorption by summarising pixel histogram content above a threshold

The BCA output is calculated as:

\[
\text{BCA} = \log_{10} (\text{corrected absorption pixel histograms})
\]

### BCA Norm
BCA Norm is computed in the same way as BCA except that the value of the first image is subtracted from the following images on the growth curve. BCA Norm growth curves are calculated for each individual scan area and will always start at point 0 independent of the initial cell concentration.

---

### 6.1.2 SEAL
The Segmentation and Extraction of Average Length (SEAL) algorithm measures the average object length in micrometers. The algorithm is designed to detect filamentous rod-shaped bacteria. The SEAL algorithm determines the mean bacterial length based on segmentation extraction of the average bacteria length.

#### Limitation:
SEAL is limited at high cell concentrations and may lead to inaccurate determination of filamentation when bacteria are overlapping.

SEAL only calculates values when the Acquire type is set to Minimal or Reduced data.

---

### SEAL Normalized
SEAL Norm is computed in the same way as SEAL except that the value of the first image is subtracted from the following images on the growth curve. SEAL Norm curves are calculated for each individual scan area and will always start at point 0 independent of the initial average length of bacterial cells.

---

### 6.1.3 SESA
The Segmentation and Extraction of Surface Area (SESA) algorithm measures microbial growth with high sensitivity and is robust to changes in light intensities caused by, for example, condensation.

The SESA algorithm determines microbial growth based on segmentation and contrast-based identification of all objects in a scan area. Growth curves are generated by summarizing the surface area covered by all identified objects in a scan area. Because growth curves are based on segmentation, the SESA algorithm is able to measure microbial growth with high accuracy even at very low cell concentrations and should not be affected by changes in illumination.

The SESA output is calculated as:

\[
\text{SESA} = \log_{10} (\text{covered surface area})
\]

Covered surface area = Area of identified objects (in pixels)

---

To identify the objects to include, the SESA feature performs an object segmentation with fixed segmentation parameters. In practice, this creates a scale from 0 (1) object/image to 6.7 (all objects in an image of 1920 × 2560 pixels).

### Limitation:
- SESA is limited at high cell concentrations and may lead to inaccurate measurement of growth curves when cells are overlapping. In general, the accuracy of SESA will begin to decline when objects cover more than 20% of the total image area. This means that a **SESA value of >6 is not reliable**.

- **SESA Norm** is computed in the same way as SESA except that the value of the first image is subtracted from the following images on the growth curve. SESA Norm growth curves are calculated for each individual scan area and will always start at point 0 independently of the initial cell concentration.

---

### 6.1.4 Total Absorption
The Total Absorption (TA) algorithm is a simple absorption measurement, which is comparable to conventional used turbidity methods.

TA growth curves are based on pixel values of the whole image where a bright image is equivalent to a low TA value and a dark image is equivalent to a high TA value. During microbial growth, the increasing number of microbial objects will reduce light transmission and the image will become darker and darker.

#### Limitation:
- TA is not very sensitive in case of low cell concentrations or at slow growth rates (for example, during lag and stationary phases) as microbial growth will only affect a few pixels at a time compared to the total pixel number of the image. Hence, TA should preferably be used for measurement of microbial growth in the exponential phase as growth and cell concentration need to be quite considerable before affecting the overall light intensity.

- The TA feature is sensitive to changes in the background intensity, which may be caused by e.g. condensation or dirt.

---

**TA Norm** is computed in the same way as TA except that the value of the first image is subtracted from the following images on the growth curve. TA Norm growth curves are calculated for each individual scan area and will always start at point 0 independently of the initial cell concentration.

---

### 6.2 Segmentation
The "Segmentation" task can be selected either in connection with the "Acquire" or the "Load" task. The segmentation process identifies all objects with certain characteristics in the recorded images.

...

## 6.2.7 Object Features
First you need to select which **object features** to calculate (see Figure 38).

The table below includes a technical description and some typical uses for each feature. This should help you to select the most feasible features for your sample.

Initially, a few illustrations are used to explain the background of some of the features calculated.

Figure 41 illustrates some of the standard geometric features calculated.

Figure 42 shows the process from a black and white object to a thinned image and an image skeleton, and furthermore illustrates **branch points**.

---

**Figure 41**: The object features explained in the example of a "pixelated" object.

- **Major Axis length**: 8
- **Minor Axis length**: 3
- **Perimeter**: 15.6
- **Area**: 20
- **Minimum Bounding Box**

---

**Figure 42**: The object features explained in the example of a "pixelated" object.

- **black/white image**
- **thinned image**
- **image skeleton**

---

## The available object features are:

| Feature     | Technical description                                                                                                                                                 | Typical use  |
|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| **Area**    | The 'Area' algorithm measures the total number of pixels covered by an object (a pixel is approx. 0.55 µm x 0.55 µm = 0.3 µm²). The 'Area' value is not affected by object shape; e.g., objects with identical 'Area' values may have different shapes. 'Area' can be used to monitor changes in object size over time. The 'Area' algorithm is useful as a rough classifier to discriminate between different types of objects or to exclude irrelevant objects from the analysis based on their size. **Limitations**: The 'Area' algorithm may not be able to identify overlapping objects as individual objects. Hence, the 'Area' algorithm will in some cases identify and compute overlapping or clustering objects as one single object. See Figure 41. | General use  |

